FOSS Report Design
==================


Rationale
---------

Much of todays software development is based on open source. There is nearly
current software system that does not depend on open source components.
Popular open source components are licenced under various licenses which all
grand rights and impose restrictions on the usage and even on the system
under development.

Therefore it is neccessary to know the licenses in effect and to manage the
dependencies according to their licenses and their imposed restrictions on
the system under developement.

There are commercial solutions providing reports on the dependencies, their
licenses and the associated risks. But these tools can be quite expensive,
even if they often also have additional features, e.g. the identification
of security risks. Some also have shortcommings generating meaningful
reports for bigger projects with many repositories.

The goal of the foss-report tool is to provide an overview of the dependencies
and licenses used in a (maven) project, possibly consisting of many repositories.


Requirements
------------

The FOSS Report tool should aggregate the artifact and license information of
the repositories of a project. It should provide a consolidated view of this
information for the whole project.

This view should be provided in different human and machine readable formats.
The ouput should be written to the file system or to the console for further
processing.

The FOSS Report tool should read the Thirdparty.txt files generated by the
Apache Maven license plugin.
The file output should be readable again with the FOSS report tool, to
provide a diff between two different versions.

The FOSS Report tool may be enhanced to read the artifact and license
information of other build tools (e.g. pip-license for python).

The FOSS Report tool shall not implement some transitive dependency resolution
on the build files (e.g. pom.xml) itself, but leverage the reports generated
by the build tools.


Problems with current maven plugins
-----------------------------------
* POM information
  * license information in the POM not normed, unreliable or uncomplete
* Maven plugins
  * generated reports are not machine readable

